---
layout: post
title:      "Cli Gem Project"
date:       2019-12-09 04:23:27 +0000
permalink:  cli_gem_project
---


I recently completed my first project at Flatiron School which required that I create a Ruby gem that provides a CLI to interact with an external source. At first it seemed a little overwhelming, it was the first time taking on something from scratch without any built-in tests to guide me. The first major decision I faced was determining what API I wanted to use for my program. After searching through several options (I was determined to make it something I was interested in and excited about) I found an ESPN API that had access to all of the major sports. I'm a huge football fan and it being in the thick of the NFL season, I decided to create a program that would give me information about all of the NFL teams. I had never worked with an API prior to this and I was worried that would be a part that I would get thoroughly stuck on, however it gave me very few problems and I found myself flying through the hashes and the arrays to get the information I was looking for. I spent the bulk of the time building my CLI class to actually run the program, and more specifically working with the menu. This is where all of the commands and interactions take place, and it took a while to get the loops and inputs to work the way that I wanted to. I found myself quickly searching for a way to break an infinite loop (thank you 'Control + C'), but after giving myself a way to exit the program I was able to go back and make the refinements I needed. If I came back to work on this more in the future, I think it would be cool to expand the input functionality to be able to seaarch be the team names themselves instead of just number provided in the list. I also think there is room to improve the way that the list displays as it is pretty lengthy and would look better in some sort of table format. Overall, I'm pretty proud of my first real program and look forward to seeing what is next!
